This is the README file for the nomencl package. Please read the file
license.txt for some legal information.


PURPOSE

The nomenclature package can be used to generate and format a
nomenclature using MakeIndex.


INSTALLATION

To install the nomencl package you need:
  nomencl.ins
  nomencl.dtx
  docstrip.tex (part of the standard LaTeX2e distribution)
               (I think you need at least version 2.4)

Run LaTeX on the file nomencl.ins to strip the comments from nomencl.dtx and 
produce the style file nomencl.sty and the index format file nomencl.ist. Put
the file nomencl.sty somewhere LaTeX can find it and nomencl.ist somewhere
MakeIndex can find. Read the documentation of your LaTeX system to find out
where this might be. 


DOCUMENTATION

To produce the documentation you also need:
  ltxdoc.cls (part of the standard LaTeX2e distribution)
  doc.sty (part of the standard LaTeX2e distribution)
  url.sty (part of almost all LaTeX2e distributions)

If you want the standard documentation, run LaTeX on nomencl.dtx.
If you want a more detailed documentation with the code and an index,
use nomencl.drv and modify it according to the following notes.

To get documentation of the code, put a percent sign in front of the
\OnlyDescription.

If you additionally want to know about the change history, uncomment the
indicated lines in nomencl.drv and use the following commands:
    latex nomencl.drv
    makeindex -s gglo.ist -o nomencl.gls nomencl.glo
    latex nomencl.drv
Then the change history should appear at the end of the documentation.
Note that this list is only complete if you include the code (see above).

If you want to have an index of all the new and redefined macros and
environments, uncomment the indicated lines and use the following 
commands:
    latex nomencl.drv
    makeindex -s gind.ist nomencl.idx
    latex nomencl.drv


COPYING AND MODIFICATION

Please don't make any changes to the files nomencl.ins and nomencl.dtx other
than allowed by the LPPL (see the file license.txt). If you want to give the 
nomencl package to anyone, please give them nomencl.dtx and nomencl.ins.

You might like to keep nomencl.ins and nomencl.dtx somewhere safe as a 
backup, or in case you want to pass the nomencl class on to someone 
else.


HELP

Bernd Schandl
email bschand@math.clemson.edu
www   http://www.math.clemson.edu/~bschand/nomencl
