This file is intended to keep track of internal changes to the
release, for the construction of the Athena system release notes.  The
changes listed here are generally not very user-visible; see the
"news" file for notable user-visible changes.

Small changes, especially bugfixes, may be unaccounted for in these
notes.  Raw commit logs may be found in the source-commits discuss
archive.

Changes from release 8.0 to release 8.1:

	* The source tree uses CVS instead of RCS now.  As one
	  consequence, all uses of symlinks in the source tree have
	  been removed, since CVS does not support symlinks.

	* The source tree has been reorganized somewhat;
	  "third/supported" and "third/unsupported" have been
	  collapsed into a single hierarchy "third", and a new "packs"
	  hierarchy has been created containing material which is only
	  relevant to our environment.  A new top-level directory
	  "doc" has been added for source tree documentation.
	  See doc/organization for a description of the new
	  organization.

	* You can watch Athena source tree commits in the
	  source-commits mailing list, or in the discuss meeting
	  menelaus:/usr/spool/discuss/source-commits.  See
	  doc/maintenance for a description of the other mailing lists
	  related to the source tree.

	* wisk.sh has been replaced by new build scripts called
	  packs/build/do.sh and packs/build/build.sh.  do.sh builds a
	  single package in the proper environment, while build.sh
	  builds and installs the entire source tree.  Packages which
	  used to contain .build scripts now contain Makefile.athena
	  files which implement individual steps of the build
	  separately.  There is no longer any need for .rule files in
	  packages.

	* All instances of BSD string and memory functions (index,
	  rindex, bcopy, bzero, bcmp) have been changed to POSIX
	  functions (strchr, strrchr, memcpy or memmove, memset,
	  memcmp).  The /usr/athena/include/strings.h hack for Solaris
	  is no longer necessary and has been removed.

	* Hesiod queries now go out in class IN, falling back to class
	  HS if no response is found in class IN.  Previously, Hesiod
	  queries were done in class HS, necessitating a completely
	  separate DNS hierarchy for Hesiod information.

	* Some Athena packages have been converted to a new build
	  system based on autoconf, and coding standards based on the
	  Gnu Coding Standards.  See doc/build-system and
	  doc/standards for a description of the Athena build system
	  and coding standards.  Changing to the new build system is
	  an ongoing process and has not been completed for the 8.1
	  release, so many packages still use the legacy build system
	  based on imake.

	* A number of small changes were made to fix problems building
	  the source tree under Solaris 2.5.1.

	* Kerberos 4 support is now based on the Cygnus Network
	  Security package on both platforms, instead of just on the
	  SGI.  Several Kerberos-related bugs on Solaris should
	  disappear, and the get_srvtab program will be available on
	  both platforms, but there should be no significant
	  user-visible differences.

	* jot, lam, look, rs, talk, talkd, and whois are now based on
	  the NetBSD versions.  There should be no significant
	  user-visible differences.
