This document describes the organization of the source tree and what
is appropriate to put where.

doc
---

This hierarchy contains documentation related to the maintenance of
the source tree.  Documentation for specific pieces of software does
not belong here.

athena
------

This hierarchy contains software (running code) for which we are the
primary maintainers.  The contents of this hierarchy should not be
highly tailored to the Athena environment (for instance, referencing
AFS paths in the Athena cell is a no-no), and should use the Athena
build system as documented in the file "build-system" in this
directory.

This hierarchy is divided up into "bin", "etc", and "lib" directories
according to where the software lives.  At the current time, this
division is very rough; for instance, packages under "lib" generally
contain programs as well as libraries.

third
-----

This hierarchy contains software which we use which is maintained by
other people, with changes for our build environment.  Software in
this hierarchy does not use the Athena build system; it has not yet
been determined or documented how third-party software will be built,
but it will attempt to require as few modifications to the original
build system as possible.

packs
-----

This hierarchy contains "stuff" which is relevant to the construction
of the system packs and the configuration and maintenance of an Athena
workstation.  Running code in the "packs" hierarchy is highly tailored
to the Athena environment would generally be useless to the outside
world except as examples.

The packs hirearchy has the following subdirectories:

	build
		Scripts et al used to build the system packs from the
		source tree.

	config
		Configuration files for Athena workstations.

	dotfiles
		Shell scripts sourced when the user logs in, and
		their subsidiaries.

	glue
		Shell scripts and symlink generation for making the
		packs refer to software which is not built as part
		of the release.

	install
		The workstation installation system.

	maint
		Workstation maintenance software, including boot-time
		scripts, reactivate, scripts for cleaning temporary
		areas, etc..

	update
		The workstation update system.

Platform-dependent information in each of these directories lives
under a platform/${HOSTTYPE}, which the Makefile can traverse.

There are a couple of small C source flies in the packs hierarchy, too
closely tailored to the Athena environment to be moved to the athena
hierarchy.  No particular autoconfiguration needs to be done for these
programs, but the correct C compiler needs to be selected; thus the
build system sets the environment variable CC while building the packs
directory.
