			OPENQUICKTIME GSTREAMER PLUGIN

Authors
--------

Yann (yann@3ivx.com)


Licence
--------

This plugin is released under the LGPL licence.


Requirements
-------------

To use this plugin you should grab a copy of the OpenQuicktime library there:   
http://openquicktime.sourceforge.net/ ... beware, it's CVS only for the moment ;) 


Status
-------

This plugin is very alpha, so be patient, Gstreamer is a very powerfull toy, 
but not so easy to handle... This is only a decoding plugin, I've got an encoding one,
but it is not in a "showable" state for the moment ;). 
All the tests have been done using the 3ivx gstreamer codecs and so you will find
hardcoded in the code the quicktime fourcc of this codec. One of the main objectifs of the future
versions is to make this plugin independant of the codecs it handles ... so, be patient to see 
your favorite codecs supported ;)  
The OpenQuicktime plugin can currently only play the first video track of a quicktime file...
So no sound and no additional video :( ... I got a version with sound but I don't like it ...
I need to add some functions to OpenQuicktime to make the gstreamer plugin as I want ...
This plugin has been created and tested with Gstreamer 0.1.1 and so it doesn't use all the new 
features you can find in the CVS version of Gstreamer...    


Known bugs
-----------

This bugs are essentially due to my poor knowledge of the Gstreamer mechanisms. They should easily
be corrected with the help of some Gstreamer Gurus... :) 

- You cannot seek in a stream and the slider doesn't show any progress using gstmediaplay: 
I don't really know why, the openquicktime plugin do exactly what do the avi plugin . 
I wonder if the offset should not be directly handle in the OpenQuicktime plugin ... 

- You cannot close gstmediaplay without crashing the player:
The avi plugin seems to have the same problem ...

- Video streams are not correctly synchronized (sometimes too fast, some times too slow ...):
I don't really know ... the ARG_CURRENT_TIME and ARG_MEDIA_TIME parameters seems correct ...



3ivx decoding plugin
---------------------

This binary plugin is not an official release and is just added to this package to easily test the 
openquickime plugin. This plugin is alpha and should only be used to do some tests ... But stay 
tuned, official 3ivx decoding and encoding gstreamer plugins should be released soon on 
www.3ivx.com  


Comments
---------

Don't hesitate to send any comments you have to yann@3ivx.com.