-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----


Computer Modern PostScript fonts released to the public domain


PORTLAND, OREGON --- We of Blue Sky Research are delighted to
announce the release, into the public domain, of a complete set of
the typefaces of Computer Modern in the form of 75 PostScript text
and symbol fonts.  Computer Modern includes a broad variety of
roman, italic, and sans-serif text faces, as well as an extensive
collection of mathematical and scientific symbols. Computer Modern
is widely used in scientific and technical publishing, as it is the
customary font family of the TeX programmable typesetting system.

The Computer Modern faces were designed by Professor Donald Knuth
of Stanford University, "based to a considerable extent on the
letterforms of Monotype Modern 8A," for the publication of his
seven volume series _The Art of Computer Programming_. The faces
were originally expressed as computer programs in Knuth's METAFONT
type design system; a complete description can be found in
_Computer Modern Typefaces_, volume 5 of Knuth's _Computers and
Typesetting_ series, published by Addison-Wesley in 1986.  The
PostScript form of the fonts was produced in 1988 by Blue Sky
Research, of Portland Oregon, and Y&Y, Inc., of Concord
Massachusetts, who have published the fonts in conjunction with
their commercial implementations of Knuth's TeX program.

Grants by the American Mathematical Society and a consortium of
scientific societies have contributed to making this public
release possible.  The American Mathematical Society has agreed to
coordinate the public availability of the fonts, which will be
distributed via the FTP and WWW Internet servers of Blue Sky
Research, Y&Y, the American Mathematical Society, and the
Comprehensive TeX Archive Network (CTAN).

Production notes: character outlines were derived from
high-resolution METAFONT-generated character bitmaps by the
ScanLab application from Projective Solutions (Ian Morrison and
Henry Pinkham), applied and corrected by Douglas Henderson of
Blue Sky Research; character hints were created by software from
Y&Y (Berthold and Blenda Horn), with extensive hand work by Blenda
Horn; font engineering, production, and packaging were by Douglas
Henderson and Berthold Horn.


ABOUT COPYRIGHTS: These fonts are identical to our commercial
distribution, including the usual "All Rights Reserved" copyright
notice.  THIS MAY BE IGNORED.  We will be producing a new set of
these fonts, with appropriate copyright notices contained within,
but you may be assured that the internal copyright notices will
not be enforced.  These fonts may be used in any fashion for any
purpose, and may be redistributed by anyone who wishes.  We ask
only one restriction: if you make derivative versions of these
fonts, or change them in any way, kindly _remove_ our copyright
notices.


Best wishes,

Barry Smith, Blue Sky Research
barry@bluesky.com


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6

iQCVAwUBMv8Brc8HDCfZtB1hAQFsCgP/Qe9dqGCHAxX+aKxs9LFnxRZ/e8N7PBi9
3qwHvbZ64v8Ubw8HIQLYQdlLg1T/ltrO1cFOnzZ6Nmi2VthAqG1s5k913lmVCec3
r9002/mebSE63IioTCIR+ecRuI5I7OPO3AX3YpA+rN2zIxTZmKUHYphuVY9HF1nz
4gWUoASckBg=
=Wbx8
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
