	README for Cygnus Network Security telnet

CNS Telnet is a binary copy of NCSA Telnet 2.6.1d1 for the 68K.
We do not have matching sources.  We expect to upgrade to a stable
release of NCSA Telnet which includes encryption support, but have
not done so yet.  This is merely the telnet that we actually use,
and the one we debugged our CNS Mac port with.


Here are the original release notes from this NCSA release:

4/26/94	NCSA Telnet 2.6.1d1 for the Macintosh release notes:

These release notes contain the following information:
	¥	Changes since the last version
	¥	Compiler compatability chart for this source release
	¥	Telnet release schedule
	¥	Goals left for current release
	¥	Bug list
	¥	Future features list
	
Changes in 2.6.1d1:
-------------------
The port to PowerPC has almost been completed.  Currently Authentication and
Encryption are not available while running on the PPC.  2.6.1d1PPC has been
quite stable for me.  Please let me know if the PPC version shows any bugs
that aren't in the 68K version.

Fixed the FTP client 'lls' bug.  I wasn't really looking at this code
currently, but the MW PPC compiler gave me a warning MPW and TC never did,
thus leading me to the cause of this bug. (MW satisfied customer #1000000001)

Compiler compatability for 2.6.1d1:
-----------------------------------
TC 7.0: Yes		MPW C3.3.1: No		MW 68K 1.0a4: No	MW PPC 1.0a4: Yes
(MPW C compiler bug prevents compiling of rsmac.c)
(Strange hang ocurring under binary made by MW 68K [probably my fault])

NCSA Telnet for the Macintosh release schedule:
-----------------------------------------------	
Don't bet the farm on these dates.  For entertainment purposes only.

2.6 final documentation		Mid-May			(unconfirmed)
2.6.1						May 14, 1994	(firm)
2.7							Septmber, 1994	(if public release is made)
3.0							Mid-Dec, 1994	(firm)

It looks like 3.0 or 3.0.1 will be the final release of NCSA Telnet for
the Macintosh. There is also a possibility that Telnet development will
cease at 2.6.1.

Goals for 2.6.1:
----------------
¥	PPC version completed.  (minus Authentication/Encryption)
¥	Fix the VAX/VMS VT220 problems.
¥	Fix the NeXT interaction problems.
¥	Clean up the segmentation a little bit more and do some memory cleanup.
¥	URL command-double-click support (?)
	
----
This is the list of all Telnet bugs known to NCSA, feel free to mail us if
you find others:

Crashes:
¥	Crash if window size is changed under low memory conditions
Interface:
¥	Window positioning
¥	Need to add blocksize pref
¥	Telnet doesn't constrain saved window positions to available desktop
¥	When switching to 132 columns, window's right edge should stay on screen
*	Connections are giving up too quickly (I believe this is a MacTCP
		problem)
¥	Type during paste bug
¥	Occasional problems getting the preferences to "stick"
¥	Certain control characters not working due to Apple's bad KCHR
¥	Certain macro sequences are not sent correctly (?)
¥	\r,\n, and \t cannot appear in a Macro sequence
¥	Some interaction problems with NeXT systems
¥	Capture text sometimes contains extra returns
Implementation:
¥	Need to always set push flag when sending return
¥	Reduce WDS sizes?
VT emulation:
¥	VT220 insert mode problem
¥	VT220 fn keys can still be sent while in vt100 mode
¥	Problems w/VT emulation when connecting to certain VAX/VMS hosts
¥	Screen trashing when forcesave is on
¥	Bold font problems need to be solved
¥	Tabs don't work completely
¥	Clear whole text cell
FTP:
*	FTP log not very useful for Macbinary transfers
¥	Can't have more than one FTP client at a time?
*	FTP server filename ISO tranlation not working?
¥	FTP Server dropping characters in ASCII mode?
¥	Need to add a provision for editing "anonymous"'s directory
¥	Occasional MNetPush error when using FTP
¥	Occasional "Unable to build data connection" errors w/FTP client
¥	FTP transfers occasionally creating zero size files
¥	FTP client "lcd" not working properly?
¥	Multiple user/one password bug?
TEK:
¥	Some TEK emulation bugs

In progress for 2.7:

¥	User set-able block size
¥	Save Macros in other ways aside from Saved Sets
¥	User set-able timeouts for open and send
¥	User set-able font size

For 3.0:

¥	Modeless configuration interface
¥	Modeless macro dialog box
¥	Scriptable
¥	Sessions can be configured to capture immediately from opening
¥	FTP user directory restrictions
¥	Reverse DNS connecting FTP hosts
¥	Support for the unified Mac Kerberos API (when it arrives)

Suggestions I don't think I will implement:
¥	Different printer font than window font
----

jbrowne@ncsa.uiuc.edu
